# Bad Guy Talks About Power

# August 25, 2024

# fiction

The emperor, 80 years old but still full of strength, sat on his throne and thought.

Over forty years had passed since he had assumed power. It had been a thing of beauty, he thought with a smile, the machinations that he had put in place to first gain control over the small kingdom where he grew up and then to expand its borders and absorb all the surrounding kingdoms to the point where none could challenge his rule. Impressing his military commanders with his bravery and effectiveness, but not too much, always with the impression of holding back so that they were motivated to promote him without realizing why they did. Developing a network of friends, underlings, informants, people who owed him favors, so that he would be the first to know of any new developments in the constant wars with their ever-shifting feudal alliances. And so that he could feed falsehoods back into the network and see where they popped back up. Many of his heroic feats, that were still known throughout the empire thanks to his stable of bards and writers that he kept under his employment, were really a story of his superiors acting on false information he supplied, letting him come through and save the day with what looked like supernatural insight. Then gaining the ear of the king, helping the king realize which stubborn generals and advisors couldn’t be trusted and which of  his friends should be elevated instead. And finally, the coup de grace. The desperation that peasant had to feel, he thought, to murder the king and then blame it on the king’s own child even through torture and execution. Though the emperor had kept his promise and made sure that the assassin’s family was well taken care of and given the wealth they needed to settle across the sea. After removing the king and the prince, it was simple to declare that the kingdom was unsafe and in chaos and step in as military lead. Within the week, any internal threats to his rule were dead.

The emperor’s smile turned grim. It wasn’t even a lie, he thought, that the kingdom was in chaos and unstable. His own childhood cleaning shit out of a horse barn in exchange for a stolen handful or two of the horse’s feed attested to that. And he was one of the lucky ones, able to scrounge enough calories to survive, the hard work giving him endurance despite his scrawny muscles that earned him his way into the military as a squire (more shoveling shit, he thought, but the rations were a step up). He remembered clearly the bodies of his childhood companions wasting away on the side of the road, being devoured by stray coyotes even while still alive. And then one day, a revelation. Sneaking into a traveling religious theater, he saw a depiction of the “kingdom of heaven” with food for all, no man better than the other except for God, clean streets, care and love for one another, an explosion of art and beauty. Even at a young age he realized that the play was only a shadow of what heaven must really be like. And so the seed was planted, that maybe life could be better that the squalor and hopelessness that surrounded him. Later, in the military, this vision came back to him as he was hacking apart a young foot solder even younger than he was. I must make this happen, he thought, to save myself and this child in front of me. I must make the kingdom of heaven here, and stop this chaos. But unlike the monks, his time as a soldier had taught him that the only way to make what he wanted in the world was through violence. Once he was sitting in the place of god, he had thought, he would make his perfect kingdom full of joy and beauty. But until then he would do what he must.

He had to admit, he had lost that vision of a heavenly kingdom with him at the place of god for a long time. Instead, he worked brutally to expand power and take over the surrounding kingdoms, then the ones beyond them, so that war could never threaten the core of his empire. He still sent young men and criminals to the borders to skirmish with the wild tribes and either earn their manhood and a plot of land in the reaches or die, either way removing them as a threat. Early on he had conscripted half his kingdom as slaves for construction, and now his capital was filled with monuments, all of his roads paved and straight, sturdy fire-proof houses available for even the poorest. He smiled at the idea of making his people slave away to build their own houses. All their resentment turned to joy as soon as they were completed. He had also enjoyed the trappings of power, both to keep up appearances as well as for its own sake. The best food, beautiful women from across the empire, decadent feasts for him and his top generals and advisors, everything hedonistic that his heart desired. He regretted none of it. The enslavement, wars, brutal suppression of even the thought of an uprising, at one point the systematic killing of five percent of the empire’s population just to make a point. It was, he still though, worth it.

But worth it for what? That was the question he had been asking himself over the last ten years of his reign. He had long since pacified the kingdom, brutally enforced building and farming so that even the lowest child had enough food and a place to sleep, even instituted mandatory education so that all citizens were able to contribute as much as they could to the empire (as well as being indoctrinated in his propaganda). But he had realized that this wasn’t enough. He had played his part, become the vengeful god bringing his people to heel, but the kingdom of heaven, full of beauty, was only half built. And, he realized, the final touch could not be built by him.

So around eight years ago he had gone back to his old playbook, the one that he had used to gain power in the first place, but with a new aim. Through his spies and informants he found people who were dissatisfied with his reign, who wanted more. His propagandists put together some alternate histories, that showed the brutality of his reign and gave a case for something better. After decades of suppressing religion he let one start to gain traction, carefully selected for its peaceful yet firm beliefs. Then, once a nascent rebellion began to ferment, he started searching for a successor. Several potential rebel leaders were identified and found to be wanting, either too impulsive to keep control or too brutal to bring forth his vision. These leaders were quickly executed, some in secret, others publicly on trumped-up charges designed to stoke the fires of rebellion even more. Eventually he found someone that would be acceptable. Born poor like him, smart and creative, able to do what is necessary to rule but without the violence and brutality that the emperor had needed to use. Someone he would be proud to see on his throne, as his successor. A young hero, loved by the people. So he helped him, clandestinely, sharing information and removing roadblocks. Even letting a few of his key advisors in on the plan, so that they could “betray him” and join the rebellion at the right time, ensuring that his plan was carried out and wouldn’t die with him. Similarly, his top general had been given orders to stand down when the rebellion finally came to the imperial palace, and to defect and support the young hero. But the people wouldn’t just be satisfied with a peaceful takeover, and defection and exile for their former oppressor. There had to be blood in order to make the transition meaningful.

The emperor looked around his empty throne room. So many people that had already passed, due to violence near the start of his reign and old age near this end. So many joys and pleasures had taken place in this palace. And so many memories that still haunted him. He sighed. It had been a good life, and he was ready to go.

The door to the throne room shook on its hinges, and then fell. On the other side stood the hero. “Come in”, said the emperor.