# Coffee Date

# August 31, 2024

# fiction

Josh walked into the coffee shop with his head down and his mind divided. His relationship with Carlos had just collapsed in a whirlwind of familiar accusations; apparently he was still “avoidant to the point of absurdity” and “emotionally unavailable”. Not to mention “scared of commitment even when the best thing in the world is staring you right in the face”. The words had hurt, and he had called upon all his acting skills to hold his tears back until he could escape to the empty box that was his studio apartment. Over the past three years he had heard similar things from two different men, and had run away from relationships with a handful of others as soon as they expressed the smallest hint of romantic feelings. He had to admit that this experiment in bisexuality was not going the way he thought it would. While the sex with other men was great, and he felt like he fit in so much better walking around Silver Lake with another man, he was starting to believe that he might only want relationships with women.

He looked up from his phone at the people around him, a mix of young families, middle-aged cyclists coming off the nearby bike path with an almost ridiculous since of gravitas, and attractive young hipsters grabbing a Tuesday morning coffee in between gigs at whatever industry job they happen to be holding at the time. He saw a couple of people he had worked with on set before, though he couldn’t remember their names and they seemed too intent on their conversations to notice him. He hoped to grab some caffeine, the first he had consumed in a month of juice cleanses and supplements, to give him the jitters for the audition he had in an hour. Something about killer clowns, hopefully funded by Blumhouse. He wasn’t sure how he had been typecast into mid budget horror movies, but he had been getting more consistent work than any other time in his career so he was thankful.

The door opened behind him, and his body tensed up as he caught the person walking in out of the corner of his eyes. It took a second or two for his brain to catch up, to realize why his heart was suddenly pounding and his hands felt three sizes too big. He slowly turned, and sure enough, there was Lindsey.

She was looking at her phone, apparently not noticing Josh standing right in front of her. Josh froze for a second longer, then cried out “Lindsey!” with what he hoped was the appropriate mix of surprise, delight, and enough casualness that she wouldn’t be freaked out.

Lindsey looked up and made eye contact; she paused for a split second that felt like an eternity to Josh, then to his joy a smile burst onto her face. “Josh! I can’t believe you’re here! It’s been almost three years right? How are you doing?”

Act casual, act casual, act casual. “Pretty good, just livin life!” He cringed. “I’m actually on my way to an audition. Been getting a lot of horror movie rolls lately. Because I’m so scary of course.” Come on, he thought, why can’t you act like a regular person? “Hhhow have you been?”

Somehow, Lindsey’s smile had never left her face, and she didn’t seem to notice his awkwardness. Josh started to relax. “I’m doing really well,” Lindsey said.

“Do..do you want to sit down and catch up for a minute?”, Josh said hesitantly. “I have plenty of time.” He did not have time, but suddenly the audition didn’t seem so important. Lindsey said sure, they both picked up their coffee, and they found a seat in the corner among the clamor of the shop. For far too many seconds they sipped their drinks and avoided eye contact, waiting to see who would speak first.

“So what have you been up to lately?” Josh finally asked, breaking the silence.

“Well work has been good,” said Lindsey. “I don’t remember if I told you but I got the Disney job. I’ve been writing there full-time for almost two years now.”

“You always made a great Minnie Mouse,” said Josh. Then after another pause, “are you enjoying it?”

“For the first time, a flash of disappointment passed across Lindsey’s face. “It has been such a weight off my shoulders to have consistent work,” she said, “but the truth is I’ve really been missing acting. The last time I was on stage was…” she hesitated. “…was our show.” Josh’s heart leapt. She went on, “I keep meaning to audition for more shows, but Disney makes you work such long hours that when I get home all I want to do is relax.”

“I understand,” said Josh, his chest tight at the mention of the show they had developed and acted in together all those years ago. “But I hope you find a way to put yourself out there again! You were always an amazing partner.” That last line was like leaping off a cliff for him. They had been a lot more than just acting partners.

Lindsey smiled again, and Josh wondered what she was thinking. Was she thinking about their work together, when they were first writing partners and then co-leads in the play they had developed together? Was she remembering how well they worked together, how they seemed to know what the other was thinking before they even said it, how lines and stories seemed to flow through them rather than being created by them? Or was she remembering something else? How one night she had asked him to stay longer after their writing session had ended, how she had opened up about her husband wanting an open relationship, and that she trusted him more than anyone to take this step with her. How the open relationship quickly became a divorce, and Josh started spending more and more evenings at Lindsey’s apartment, the risqué feelings of the first night quickly becoming a warm comfort that Josh first looked forward to, then without realizing began to rely on, to bring meaning to his life. Then, the question which could have been so innocent. “You’re over here so often,” Lindsey said, “why don’t you move in?”. He brushed it off at first, but over the following months she started becoming more insistent, more serious about wanting a commitment. She starting bringing up marriage, at first only a general allusion to being open to getting married again and then asking him point-blank whether he could see himself marrying her. By this point it had been over a year since they first took the step beyond professionalism, but as Lindsey became more and more insistent that they take things more seriously as a couple Josh found himself pulling away more often, avoiding the topic or agreeing with her just to get her to stop talking about it. But he kept spending more time at her apartment, both for the sex but also for the sense of comfort it gave him. And now that their play had been picked up to great reviews they were spending almost all of their time together. It was stifling. And yet he couldn’t bring himself to leave. It finally came to a head when Lindsey put down an ultimatum that he either move in permanently or they stop having sex. He had finally got angry, and said that if they were going to resort to ultimatums then they might as well not see each other at all. And that was it. They tried keeping the show together for another month or two, but eventually they agreed to go their separate ways and pursue other projects.

Lindsey was still smiling, but her eyes were distant. “We were good writing partners,” she finally said. Josh’s heart sank at the word “writing”. “And I did really love that show.” Josh didn’t know how to respond. Hope and sadness mixed in his mind and left him paralyzed.

“How is everything outside of work?”, Lindsey finally asked. “Done anything fun lately?”

The dam in Josh’s heart final broke. “My boyfriend just broke up with me,” he said. “I’ve been dating guys since…” his voice broke. “I’ve been dating guys, which was great, but to be honest I think I’m only in it for the sex. Which is great, don’t get me wrong.” His attempt at humor felt flat even to him. “But I’m single now, and I’m realizing that I only really felt fulfilled and happy when dating…” you, he thought, but didn’t say it. “…dating women. Turns out I’m not quite as bi as I thought.”

“I’m glad you’re figuring that out about yourself,” said Lindsey. “At least you tried, right? You put yourself out there!”

A pause. “And I’m proud of you for doing that,” she said. Josh’s hear melted a bit more.

All of a sudden Lindsey looked down at her phone. “I’m so sorry, I have to go,” she said. “I’m supposed to meet a friend and with traffic, you know…” She stood up, and Josh stood with her. She started to turn, then looked into his eyes. “It was really nice to run into you,” she said, holding eye contact just a bit more than usual and smiling almost shyly. Josh’s heart stopped beating for a half second, then he made a decision. “Do you want to get together sometime?” he said just a little too fast. “We can spend some more time catching up! And honestly,” he added nervously, “I would love to try writing with you again.” She paused, and panic took him. “That is, if you want to. But I’m sure you’re busy, and I know you have your writing job now…”

Lindsey just smiled. “That would be great,” she said. “Give me a call.” Then she turned and left in a dazzle of light.

Josh just stood there, his palms sweaty, his heart beating, wondering if this might be the start of something beautiful, hoping that this was a second chance for love.

Lindsey walked towards the coffee shop with a spring in her step. Her date last night had been amazing; despite there not being a lot of physical attraction at first, by the end of the night Jonathan had absolutely charmed her, and she was already thinking of the next date. Better yet, he was adamant about wanting to pursue a serious relationship, which was so refreshing compared to the many men in LA who seemed terrified of commitment. And now she had an entire day off to relax, unwind, get the housework done, and just generally be lazy before the Mouse called her into action again.

She opened the coffee shop door right as her phone buzzed. Jonathan had texted her how much he had enjoyed their date. She smiled.

“Lindsey!” she heard, and froze. The voice sounded familiar, but it took her a second to place it. She slowly looked up to see her ex, Josh, standing in line right in front of her.

The first thing she felt was annoyance. Josh had been the first person she dated after her previous husband decided on a divorce. He had been her writing and acting partner before that, and over the months of working together she had come to admire his gentleness, his empathy, and his determination to speak up for others. Not to mention that he was very attractive; even his silly mustache turned her on. When her marriage had started to fall apart she thought he would be the perfect person to help her transition out of that stage of her life and get her used to seeing other people. And the first time they slept together they had both agreed that it was just sex, it wouldn’t affect their friendship, and it wouldn’t be forever. But then they kept sleeping together. And spending time together. And the play they had been working on got picked up by a theater. And she slowly realized that she had fallen in love.

Unfortunately, while she had changed in how she saw Josh, he started changing too. Instead of the calm confidence he had when they first started working together he started acting needy, almost whiny in how he pleaded for her time and attention. Instead of courage in speaking out in groups he started looking at her for what to say, hesitating before doing anything that involved her. He spent more and more nights at her place but refused to commit to moving in and really being there. And most annoying, he constantly talked about dating other men, and how he felt excluded and looked down on in their Silver Lake community for being a “pretend bisexual” and dating a woman. Lindsey held it in, but was so angry when he said this. Was she not good enough for him? Who cares who you date, just commit to being with someone you loved! But whenever she tried to talk to him about it he would avoid the conversation, even going as far as to leave and go home for the night so he didn’t have to deal with the discomfort of an actual relationship. Eventually he did start admitting that they were dating, but he always seemed hesitant, and would bring up their “it’s just sex” agreement over and over like she should feel lucky to have him stick around. Finally she gave him an ultimatum, either to move in with her and commit to dating or go date someone else. He decided to leave, saying that he needed to try dating men anyway. And despite her heart breaking at the time, Lindsey was glad to see him go. Maybe without her, she thought, he would get the confidence back that made her attracted to him in the first place. And maybe he really did need to date guys instead. Either way, Lindsey quickly moved on, taking their brief relationship as a lesson to never again date guys with commitment issues.

And now he was standing right in front of her. Heartbreak, regret, and annoyance briefly fought in her heart before she decided to just treat him like the friend he was before they started dating. She was an actor at heart, dammit, and she wouldn’t let her feelings get in the way.

“Josh! I can’t believe you’re here! It’s been almost three years right? How are you doing?” she said, with a cheeriness that was mostly authentic. “Pretty good, just livin life!” he said. “I’m actually on my way to an audition. Been getting a lot of horror movie rolls lately. Because I’m so scary of course.” The little bit of awkwardness was actually endearing, and she felt herself start to relax a bit. “How have you been?” “I’m doing really well,” she said, and smiled.

The line moved up, and they approached the counter to order. “Do you want to sit down and catch up for a minute? I have plenty of time,” suggested Josh. Lindsey agreed, and they got their coffees and sat down in a quiet corner. For a moment neither spoke, and Lindsey started to wonder what Josh had been doing since they agreed to go their separate ways both professionally and personally. Had he found some happiness with another man or woman? Had his career been going well? Had he found a different writing partner? This last thought, she had to admit, had a bit of jealousy behind it.

“So what have you been up to lately?” Josh asked. “Well work has been good,” said Lindsey. “I don’t remember if I told you but I got the Disney job. I’ve been writing there full-time for almost two years now.” “You always made a great Minnie Mouse,” said Josh. Lindsey did love having a full time job, and being the writer behind Minnie Mouse was a prestige that most actors could only dream of. Yes, working for Disney could be soul-crushing in the way all corporate jobs are, but she still woke up every day thankful for the opportunity. And it was a good gig, one she could stay in the rest of her career if she wanted. But it had been too long since she had been on stage. She had recently been reaching out to her network to see if there were any roles that might work for her, even at the community theater level. Just enough to keep her acting skills sharp.

“Do you enjoy it?” Josh asked, and Lindsey answered truthfully. “It has been such a weight off my shoulders to have consistent work, but the truth is I’ve really been missing acting. The last time I was on stage was was our show.” She thought wryly, that was the best part of our relationship. And with a touch of annoyance she realized that she still blamed him for her time off-stage. “I keep meaning to audition for more shows, but Disney makes you work such long hours that when I get home all I want to do is relax,” she added, hoping to head off any tension before it began.

“I understand,” said Josh, “but I hope you find a way to put yourself out there again! You were always an amazing partner.” Lindsey smiled, but inside she was cringing. You’re really going to try flirting now? she thought. After refusing to commit when we were actually dating? It’s a bit too late for that. She said something non-committal, hoping to keep things polite and friendly.

“How is everything outside of work?”, Lindsey asked, trying to change the subject to something less tied to their past partherships. “Done anything fun lately?”

Josh looked away, obviously uncomfortable. Lindsey’s heart sank. Had something terrible happened to him? Had one of his parents passed away? She hoped she hadn’t run into him at a bad time. For a second her heart filled with sympathy. If there was any way she could help him feel better, she thought, she would. He was still a good friend.

“My boyfriend just broke up with me,” he finally said. It was all Lindsey could do not to roll her eyes, though she was relieved that his sadness hadn’t been anything more serious. “I’ve been dating guys, which has been great, but to be honest I think I’m only in it for the sex. Which is great, don’t get me wrong. But I’m single now, and I’m realizing that I only really felt fulfilled and happy when dating women. Turns out I’m not quite as bi as I thought,” he concluded, and looked at her sadly. Well, heartbreak sucks for everyone, she thought. And she secretly hoped that now he understood a bit more of how she felt when he broke things off with her.

“I’m glad you’re figuring that out about yourself,” she responded. “At least you tried, right? You put yourself out there! And I’m proud of you for doing that.” Josh smiled and leaned forward, putting his hands under his chin. He still has feelings for me, Lindsey belatedly realized. That’s where this is going. He’s going to ask me out again. Another buzz from her phone, and she took the opportunity to look away and check it. Jonathan again. Not as cute as Josh, but in every other way a better romantic partner for her. While she would always care about Josh she had moved on, and it wasn’t her responsibility to stick around if he hadn’t. Better to leave now.

“I’m so sorry, I have to go,” she said suddenly, standing up. “I’m supposed to meet a friend and with traffic, you know… But it was really nice to run into you!” The lie sounded lame even to her, but thankfully Josh didn’t comment. Instead, he stood with her, moved to give her a hug goodbye, then paused.

“Do you want to get together sometime?” he said instead. “We can spend some more time catching up! And honestly, I would love to try writing with you again. That is, if you want to. But I’m sure you’re busy, and I know you have your writing job now…”

Oh thank god. He also wanted to write again. He must miss their professional partnership just as much as she did. She laughed inside, feeling silly for assuming he still had romantic feelings for her. Of course he moved on just like she did, she though. And now that the awkwardness was out of the way, maybe we can pick up our friendship right where we left it. It would be nice to have a writing partner again, and maybe work on some new independent work. At least it would be a good distraction from Disney.

“That would be great!” she said, already imagining fun storylines to brainstorm with him. “Give me a call!” She’d have to set some good boundaries of course, to make sure he didn’t get feelings later. Maybe him and Jonathan could be friends, diffuse any tension that might happen before it even starts. She walked out of the coffee shop with a spring in her step, happy to get some closure on her old relationship with Josh and looking forward to finding love.