# Drugs And Biological Individualism V2

# January 01, 1900

# nonfiction

Drugs show us that we are one with nature + space travel needs ships that are grown, not built

People, in general, see themselves as individuals. Sure, many people have strong feelings of connection to a family, country, or group, but in general we define ourselves primarily as self-contained, free-will-using beings who can choose whether or not to attach to any specific group or no group at all. This feeling of individualism, of detachment, extends to our relationship with the world around us. There’s a long history in science, art, and philosophy, and religion of people both as individuals and as humanity in general being a group set apart from the rest of the world. In the Christian canon, humanity was kicked out of the garden of Eden and forcibly made separate from the natural world as a consequence of receiving a small taste of the mind of God. Even in one of my favorite sci-fi series growing up, Ender’s Game and it’s sequels, all creatures on a planet were intimately tied to their home world through a subatomic particle analogue of a soul except for humans, whose souls led to the stars. The reason we see ourselves in this way seems obvious, since that’s how we generally experience life. We get privileged information from our eyes, ears, touch receptors, and other sensory organs that define the world around us as a separate space from our inner world, and while we can share perceptions with those around us we cannot consciously know what is happening in their mind. Our daily experience seems to hold to a pattern of observe-decide-act, where a separate “decide” part is able to step back from the outside world and freely choose what sensory input to respond to, usually by routing things through the language centers of our brain first to both extract and abstract meaning from our perceptions. Even with signals from our own body, our first move is to other-ize; we say that “my stomach is killing me” or “my immune system is making me feel pain” as if the “me” is separate from the actions of the body, and the brain is not just one part of the full biological system necessary for life.

One interesting place we see the othering of our conscious experience is in our concept of space travel. In both pop culture portrayals and real human spaceflight programs humans are portrayed as self-contained beings who can be plucked away from Earth and sent to the far reaches of the universe without consequences, shedding our home planet as easily as a hermit crabs drops a shell it has outgrown. If non-human biology is considered it is either as an enemy, as in a foreign planet’s creatures attacking future space travelers or a bacterial outbreak in the ISS threatening the lives of our astronauts, or as a source of food to be taken from as needed. Recent scientific work and long-term experiments on the ISS have revealed the general impossibility of this view of life in space. Researchers in the field know that in isolation of space both the human body and mind become increasingly fragile and will eventually break down even at the cellular level. But we try not to think about this, as it flies in the face of our romantic notion of expansion and exploration unconstrained by the natural world.

The truth is, we are intimately tied to the biosphere around us at a biochemical level, with significant biological overlap between each other and from the natural world. And one of the most powerful pieces of evidence for this is in the existence of pharmaceutical drugs.

The other day, I started experiencing both intense pain centered around my esophagus and stomach, as well as a foggy, detached mental state that prevented any sort of work or conversation. The culprit, I soon realized, was a delicious kimchi that unfortunately contained shrimp, of which I’ve been allergic to since college. In response, I swallowed a pill smaller than my smallest fingernail containing 12.5mg of cetirizine (branded as Zyrtec in the States), and within 10 minutes the pain just...stopped. The mental fog I experienced went away. And I was returned to, if not exactly my previous physical and mental state, at least one that felt much better. While I usually take an event like this for granted, the truth is truly insane; I ingested a substance measuring 0.0000015% of my body’s mass and my biochemistry rapidly adjusted to produce a new mental and physical state of being. This shouldn’t be possible if we really are isolated beings with a clear boundary between us and the outside world.

We take for granted that drugs, whether in pills, shots, or skin absorption patches, are a result of science and human effort and are therefore somehow separate from what’s created in the natural world. This is easy in the case of antihistamines like Zyrtec, which was first synthesized in a pharmaceutical laboratory. I believe that we unconsciously go even farther in our view of drugs and see them as alchemical substances whose effects are in the realm of magic, separate again from our normal daily experiences and therefore not able to be truly considered in context. But chemical symbiosis between humans and the natural world is on display everywhere. Every morning, humanity drinks two billion cups of coffee, mostly because of the dramatic change in mental state it produces. This substance, and the chemicals which act on us to change our feelings and behavior, come not from a laboratory but from a bush whose beans are simply heated and soaked to produce our favorite brew. Humans and coffee bushes now live in a symbiotic relationship, with each communicating with and affecting the other’s behavior through a complex chemical relationship (mediated, among other things, by caffeine and polyphenols from the coffee’s side and fertilizers from the human’s). Each relies on the other to thrive, and our communion has fundamentally changed both species’ society and culture.

This dynamic, with multiple different species affecting each other’s behavior and society through chemical signals exiting below the level of perception, occurs throughout our biosphere. For humans, despite our conscious experience of separation from the world our boundaries and borders are in fact fuzzy and permeable. We sample the biochemical world around us through our nose and lungs, through our mouth and digestive system, and through our skin, which constantly absorbs both man-made and natural chemicals from everything we come in contact with. This chemical communion isn’t a one-way street: we emit chemicals as well, from hormones and pheromones in sweat to volatile organic compounds in our breath, that subconsciously affect the minds of people nearby and can drive everything from group behavior at a concert to mutual attraction on a first date. This chemical communication is cross-species as well, as anyone with a dog who “just knows” how you’re feeling can attest to. And over the next few decades I’m sure our knowledge of how humans communicate chemically will continue to grow.

There are several consequences of a view of humans in which each individual is differentiated fuzzily at best, and where all of our biosphere is continuously sharing signals and substances that affect other species’ physiology and mental processes at a fundamental level. On the more esoteric side we can re-examine the nature of free will. I do believe that we have the ability to make choices and direct our own actions, but an interconnected view of the world implies that our will can only be one force among many that results in our behaviors. Perhaps a better view of our lives is less of a straight line that we walk down and more like a pool table, where we can choose the direction of our shot but our eventual path is chaotically affected by the other balls we come in contact with. A more practical consequence is that when trying to intentionally alter humanity, whether ourselves, a group, or a whole society, we need to consider the entire biosphere for our interventions to have anything close to their intended effects. Systems biology is a strong step towards this type of consideration in the scientific world; this can and should be extended to systems medicine systems city design, even systems architecture, with the understanding that a human’s life depends on more than just an individual. Our world can absolutely be designed better, and the start of this improvement depends on expanding our conception of what it means to be human outside of the human itself.

Nowhere is the need for biological systems thinking more clear than in space travel. We are able to exist in isolation from our biosphere for a short time, in a spacecraft or suit, but only because we carry much of the biosphere within us. For long-term space travel, isolated humans surrounded by dead systems will not succeed. Think of a “clean” place on earth, such as a shower or bathroom, which requires constant maintenance using cleaning chemicals and significant effort to prevent it from being incompatible with our daily lives. Contrast this to an outdoor shower or a natural waterfall, which is always “clean” despite being full of living things. These are the two stages of equilibrium that we need to choose between, one which is like balancing on the head of a pin and which requires constant effort just to maintain position and another which is at balance and supported by all the organisms involved. Right now, space travel requires massive and constant outputs of energy and material in order to continue, which prevents its advancement. Imagine, instead of sterility, an ecosystem in healthy equilibrium; instead of prophylactic antibiotics, an adapting microbiome which responds to outcompete harmful microorganisms; instead of water and air recycling, plants and creatures that are engineered to filter water and air constantly, and to heal and regenerate in response to outside stress. At its extreme, I could imagine self-healing, living hulls to protect the interior from the vacuum of space and ships that grew and adapted to the people living within. Obviously, human intelligence will be needed to fix, guide, adjust, and prevent disaster, but this role of humans will be like a brain in a body, just one vital component to the survival of the whole.

Just as our brain is only one part of our body, so humans are only one part of our biosphere. Instead of fighting for separation, recognizing the fuzziness of our individuality will allow us to live better lives, waste less energy and time, reduce anxiety, and flourish together. Plus, for space travel to be sustainable we’ll need to bring our biosphere along with us.

Referenced links:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cetirizine

https://britishcoffeeassociation.org/coffee-facts/

https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/56/1/123/419033

https://www.chemistryworld.com/features/human-chemical-communication/4012379.article

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-022-10325-6

https://irp.nih.gov/catalyst/19/6/systems-biology-as-defined-by-nih