# Fairy Tale Allegory

# August 11, 2024

# fiction

A long time ago, in a faraway land, there was a small, gentle patch of woods in the middle of a great forest. This patch of woods was as close to paradise as one can get in this world. There was a gentle stream that ran down rocks and into a small pond, surrounded by cattails and watercress. There were flowers, trees, and berries. At night you could see a multitude of fireflies dancing around, bringing beauty to the world as they shouted into the darkness with light.

There were also animals in the patch of woods. There were deer and elk, that grazed on the grass and gathered at the pond every morning and evening to drink. There were rabbits that ate the little strawberries that grew in the underbrush, and a mob of squirrels that climbed the great oak trees to collect acorns. There were foxes that prowled through the grass in search of prey. For the animals, this patch of woods was their garden of eden, providing all of their needs. There was conflict of course: the fox would chase and catch rabbits and other small creatures, coating the grass with blood; one elk would gore another in a fight over a mate; the squirrels were constantly arguing over who should have the best acorn. But overall there was no more conflict than in any other place in the forests, and all the animals knew that their woods was a special place.

One day, a great wildfire swept through the forest. All the animals became frightened, afraid that they would perish and their paradise would be reduced to ash and dead earth. But although the woods filled with smoke, the forest fire passed by to the north, leaving them untouched. The animals all breathed a sigh of relief and were thankful that they had been spared.

There was one consequence of the fire, however, that the animals did not find out until a few days after the last of the flames went out. The next morning after the fire, the animals awoke to find a family of brown bears sleeping next to the pond, their fur still smoking from their narrow escape from the fires up north. They were exhausted and hurt after their ordeal, and upon finding the untouched woods they had collapsed in exhaustion. The papa bear was the first to wake; wandering by the lake he found a large patch of blueberry bush and proceeded to gorge himself with the hunger only one who has narrowly escaped death can know. Soon the mama and the baby bear joined him, and they ate their fill, then made a small hollow at the base of the great oak tree and slept again.

As they slept, all the animals of the forest gathered close. Fear of the great predators kept them beyond the reach of the claws, yet their morbid curiosity prevented them from fleeing. Soon, they began to speak.

“Those bears are dangerous!” said the stag. “They’ll hunt my wives and my children for their food as soon as the berries run out!”

“They are starving and barely survived the great fire,” said the rabbit. “Surely we can let them rest here. Maybe they’ll move on eventually. Or maybe we’ll be friends!”

“I don’t like it,” said the elk. “We have this paradise to ourselves, and we’ve had peace. I don’t want anyone else coming in here acting like they’re in charge and ruining our way of life, especially not a predator like this!” The elk was used to being the largest beast in the woods, and feared both for his life and for his authority.

“They’re sleeping underneath our tree!” cried the squirrels, horrified to think that they might miss out on the best acorns or have to risk the sharp claws and teeth.

The fox said nothing aloud to the group. But he went from animal to animal, whispering, telling them horrible stories about the bears and the damage they would do, and how there would never be peace while the bears were there. Even the elk, imagining himself king of the woods, was influenced by the fox’s whispers. So by the next evening, when the animals all came together again to discuss what must be done, they quickly agreed to drive the bears out.

The animals attacked at dawn. The squirrels, weak but determined, pelted the bears with old acorns and twigs from their tree. The deer kicked up pebbles and rocks at their faces. The elks charged in from the north and the south, their antlers lowered, determined that no creature could live in their woods without their permission.

But none of them realized how powerful a trapped bear could be. Though still weak from the fire, the papa and mama bear put their baby between them and swiped the elk’s attack away. One deer, getting too close, was caught in the claws and disemboweled. Mama bear leapt forward and grabbed the king elk’s leg, crushing it in her jaws before the elk bucked and escaped, hobbling away. Several squirrels were snapped up and devoured before they even realized that they were in danger. Though they knew the bears were dangerous, none of the animals had realized how quickly they would move, or how fiercely they would fight when cornered. By the end of the day the other animals were exhausted, many wounded or killed, and still the bears stayed where they were. Finally, the king elk was forced to concede that the bears would not be pushed out. And so the animals retreated, licked their wounds, buried their dead, and tried to make peace with their new world.

And for a time, there was relative peace. Conflict between the other animals actually lessened, now that they had a new common enemy in the bears, but they didn’t dare challenge them outright. All the animals still shared the watering hole, with the elk especially looking side-eyed at the bears and conspicuously moving away from them any time they came to drink. All the worst predictions came true; the bears would occasionally kill and eat a deer when the berries went out of season, and there were occasional scuffles for dominance when the elk wandered into one of the trails the bears used to move through the woods. But there was not really much more conflict than before the bears came. Nature took its course, and the animals became use to the fact that their woods had changed.

And meanwhile, the fox watched and whispered.

The squirrels were the only ones that couldn’t seem to come to even an uneasy peace with the bears. The bears had continued to make their home below the best oak tree, and although the squirrels could sneak up and down at night, they hated that they had to risk claws and teeth while doing so. The baby bear would even make a sport of catching and eating any squirrels that it saw try to grab dropped acorns, infuriating the group. In response, the squirrels constantly pelted the bears with acorns from the safety of the high branches and hurled insults at them day and night. Sometimes, almost delirious with annoyance, papa bear would roar and swipe at the tree, leaving deep claw marks in the wood. But the squirrels lacked any power to truly harm the bears, and the most they could do was make them miserable.

One evening, just after the bears went to sleep, the fox came to talk to the squirrels. “I have an idea,” said the fox, “if you want to get rid of the bears forever. Your acorns can’t hurt them, but if you cooperate and lift together you could get a large river rock into the trees and drop it on their heads. Aim right and you’ll kill the papa bear, and the mama and baby will have to leave. And then we’ll have peace in the forest, and it will be a paradise again.” The fox knew that there was never really peace, but he was jealous of the bears and wanted to chase after and eat the squirrels himself without worrying. Also, though he may not admit it, the fox was just as terrified of the bears as any other creature. But as he talked to the squirrels he hid all this and painted a picture of a perfect world where any squirrel was free to follow squirrel law and never had to worry about bears.

The squirrels were easily convinced, and they followed the fox’s advice to the letter. That night, they went to the stream and found a large, smooth stone. It took 12 squirrels to lift the stone and carry it back to the tree, and then another 12 to lift it up. But by the time dawn broke their stone was at the highest point of the great oak tree. And just as the bears were starting to stir, they shouted a cry of war and pushed the stone off the branch towards papa bear’s head.

But they missed! Instead of hitting papa bear, they hit baby bear. The stone landed obliquely, so it was not a killing blow, but baby bear’s nose was broken and his bloody teeth were scattered all over the ground. Baby bear started crying, a pathetic, painful wail that woke all the animals throughout the woods. The squirrels initially thought that this was a victory, and started celebrating and yelling insults at the bears, telling them to go back to where they came from.

Papa bear, upon seeing his son broken and bloodied, was filled with a rage he had never felt before. For so long the squirrels had taunted them and kept them awake through small annoyances and tossed acorns. The truth is, he has long since stopped paying attention to them, assuming them to be harmless. When he saw what they had done, that together they were able to hurt baby bear, his eyes filled with red anger fueled by a black shame and a desire to protect his family and destroy his enemies once and for all. He remembered like it was yesterday the flames of the forest fire that had destroyed his last home and how his family had barely escaped alive. He would never let anyone do that to him again.

Papa bear let out a roar and, almost blind in his rage, started swinging at the tree. He drove deep gauges into the trunk, shaking the branches and sending squirrels flying. When a squirrel hit the ground he lept on them in seconds and devoured them whole. Even after many of the squirrels were dead he kept on fighting, tearing the branches off whole and tossing them into the woods. A deer, drawing close out of concern, was caught in the bear’s rage and ripped limb from limb. Many rabbits who were hiding in the brush were killed by tree limbs or crushed by the bear’s wrath. The fox had slunk off long ago. Eventually, the papa bear hit the great oak tree so hard that it fell over, destroying the squirrel’s home. But the bear kept swinging, and his rage was now focused on all the other animals that had tried to drive his family out when they first arrived. Lunging at the elk, he grabbed the king’s antlers and twisted, breaking the elk’s neck and flinging his body out next to the river. But the elk’s hoof hit a river rock, causing sparks that lit a patch of dry grass nearby. As the bear raged and the animals fled, nobody noticed the fire until it was too late. From a small grass fire it roared into a full forest fire. All the animals, bears, elk, even the fox, were caught in it and perished.

And so fire claimed the woods after all.