# First Person Couple Watching

# September 13, 2025

# fiction

God dammit why am I up so early? It’s Saturday, I should still be asleep. This is the problem with waking up at five freaking thirty every morning for work; my body doesn’t know how to sleep in anymore and I just wake up wired and anxious before the sun rises whether I want to or not. Oh well, guess I gotta get up now. No need for a shower, I’ll just go to a coffee shop to try to wake up a bit and enjoy the morning.

I’ll admit, the cool breeze this morning feels pretty nice. Better than the stuffiness inside my apartment. With all the construction going on the building has been filled with dust for the last two weeks; probably another reason why I haven’t been sleeping as well. And having strange dreams. Last night was especially weird. I was underwater, and there was a really big fish with three arms…damn I can’t remember the rest. It sucks how fast dreams fade. Maybe once I get my coffee I’ll be able to remember. In the meantime, this breeze does feel nice, and I’m up early enough that there aren’t any cars on the road. Usually the road noise is a constant background hum. This silence is nice. I wonder what that smell is? It's not unpleasant, it’s almost…nostalgic? Reminds me of growing up in Texas, the smell you’d get right before the leaves start to change, when the first autumn breeze comes through and blows away the humidity and heat of summer. Not really a smell, more of a feeling. For some reason I’m feeling that now too. Maybe just because fall is starting here too. And there’s something interesting about the morning light too; everything seems a little bit brighter, the lines sharper, every edge standing out. Maybe lack of sleep really is getting to me, but honestly I don’t mind right now. It’s kind of nice to be half awake on a day where I really don’t have to do anything.

What’s that? Huh, that was weird. I swear I saw someone in the corner of my eye walking straight towards me on the sidewalk. But there’s nobody there. I really do need that coffee I guess.

Walking up Sunset towards the Hollywood sign, looks like all the shops are still closed. The street is mostly empty. Across the street there are tents set up for a farmer’s market; looks like the vegetables are already up and walking around, setting up their tables full of different humans grown in the fields nearby. I pass by an old phone booth, currently occupied by what looks like an elderly gorilla pleading with someone on the phone. Hope he’s alright. I wonder who he’s talking to? Maybe his wife left him, or his plug cut him off of his banana supply. He’s probably desperate for some more, maybe offering to be in a circus show in exchange for a daily…

Whoa! Oof, almost tripped over this tentacle someone left on the sidewalk. I need to stay focused. Almost to my coffee.

Finally, there’s La Colombe. Wish I could remember how to open the door. Maybe if I ask nicely someone will just bring me coffee out here. Ha I wish. Nah I’ll be polite, shake hands with the door and go inside like a normal customer. What is it, two shakes, a fist bump, a gentle stroke on the door’s palm, and then…yep that’s it. Thanks door. Looks like it’s pretty busy in here. I’ll just get a cappuccino. “Uh, hi. Can I get a cappuccino for here please?” Wow, she seems pretty annoyed. You’d think she’s had her coffee. Her third eye keeps glaring at me while she’s firing up the espresso machine…ok Alex you’re just being paranoid right now. Get a grip. Get your coffee, wake up a bit, then you can go home and do something productive.

I always hate how squishy these wooden seats are. And the cilia make me feel uncomfortable. Hope they bring the coffee quick. I know there are a lot of people in front of me. This coffee shop is a lot more colorful than I remember. Wonder what those colors are called? It’s like a purple-pink-iridescent-ish color? Seems to be growing on the ceiling. That reminds me, I really need to clean my shower before any girls come over. Maybe I should go grab some bleach after this. Chill Alex, you don’t need to think about work or cleaning or anything right now, just be in the moment and enjoy waiting for your coffee. Do some people watching. Let’s see, who is in here. A young couple with a dog. A goth girl with her pet crab. She’s kind of hot honestly. Maybe a bit too young for me though. Who else…

There’s a cute couple sitting across from me, staring into each other’s eyes. The man looks happy but a bit insecure, with a very light red glow pulsing in the air around him. The woman seems more reserved, the air around her head a faded periwinkle blue. The man says something, and with a pulse of anger the woman pulls away. I wish I could hear what they were talking about. Hope they make it work. The man reaches out, touches the woman’s arm. And something changes. I can see her relax. The man smiles, the pulsing around his head synchronizing with the woman’s, and she leans in close. Iridescent fractals start blooming across both of their skins, and tendrils of light reach out between them, binding them together. I can’t look away. Hope I’m not being rude. But it’s so transfixing, seeing people in love, makes me miss my ex. They become more and more intertwined, binding together in interlocked patterns in front of everyone.

I cough, and suddenly the air gets a couple degrees colder. The music stops. Everyone in the coffee shop slowly turns and stares at me, unmoving, unblinking. A smell of dark energy, electricity and bleach mixed in even proportions, emanates from everywhere and nowhere. And they all sit or stand or float, staring at me, unmoving, waiting.

I really need my coffee.