# Space Horror

# August 03, 2024

# fiction

The sweat from Yuri’s forehead created a tiny patch of condensation on the inside of his helmet. For a half second Yuri started to reach up and wipe it off before remembering the empty vacuum standing between him and the walls of his ship.

You can’t really call it a ship, he thought. Only the second stage of the Soyuz rocket that had taken them into space 36 hours earlier, with some minimal modifications. A tank full of potable water, and a second to hold the resulting human waste. Mechanisms to take the residual liquid oxygen from the second stage’s propulsion tanks and warm it to a breathable temperature. Carbon dioxide scrub pads. A battery bank. And umbilical cords to allow all of these to come and go from a spacesuit. All together there was enough water, power, and oxygen for one astronaut to survive for up to a week. Or two for 84 hours each.

Yuri looked over at his companion. He hung motionless in the microgravity, only a small rhythmic movement of his suit confirming that he was still alive. Ivan was his name, though Yuri had no idea if that was a real name or just something the Kremlin gave him. To be honest, he was surprised that he was still “Yuri” for the duration of this mission, instead of being forced into a new identity to assuage his superior’s paranoia. Most likely, he thought, being the engineer and mechanic on the mission let him avoid a lot of the difficulty. Yuri glanced down at the extra pocket on Ivan’s suit containing a gun and two contact explosives to be used at the completion of their mission. What was true for him was not necessarily true for Ivan.

Their mission, which the handlers assured Yuri would probably involve spending 24 hours in space and then coming home to a good meal and a threat to never speak of the launch again. When the Russia/NATO war had finally gone from a proxy war to direct conflict, the western astronauts aboard the ISS had seen to it that Russia’s presence in space was minimized, first by locking the two Russian cosmonauts in their Soyuz escape pod and then by forcibly overriding the controls to trigger release from the station and start the re-entry procedure. A useless gesture; his comrades would never have betrayed the integrity of their space station and were there to promote cooperation, not conflict. And a dangerous one, as an unscheduled re-entry could have led to a lost capsule. Luckily, the cosmonauts had landed on the Mongolian steppe and were picked up in a matter of hours. But the whole incident had been embarrassing. Though the preference was to keep things diplomatic and simply use the incident to demand concessions from the west, a decision was made to prepare for a counterattack. Yuri and Ivan were to ride up on a previously-scheduled Soyuz satellite launch. An extra boost during satellite separation was to place the “dead” second stage in a near-collision orbit with the ISS, allowing them to pass by at a distance of 1km and a relative speed of only 0.3m/s. If the signal was given from the Kremlin, Yuri and Ivan would travel to the ISS using the cold gas thrusters in their suits, use Ivan’s charges to board the station, and force the western crew into their Dragon spacecraft. Then they were to check in for further orders. Options existed to either return to Earth with the westerners and scuttle the ISS or to maintain control of the ship and wait for a second Soyuz resupply and return vessel to be launched the next day. In the more likely event that a diplomatic solution was reached or the plan was simply deemed not politically advantageous, the Kremlin would send a radio signal to the second stage to trigger a re-entry. Either way, the handlers said, they will receive an update within 24 hours of launch.

They had heard nothing. No remote trigger of the re-entry sequence. No “go” signal from the Kremlin. Their radio, which was not capable of transmitting in order to maintain secrecy, had only received static and the occasional American AM radio broadcast when they passed over North America. Just silence.

Yuri caught Ivan’s eye, then made the hand signal to request a conversation. Ivan tapped the controls on his glove that turned on their short-range radio, not even strong enough to get a signal over 100m. A small click and some static played in Yuri’s ear.

“Are there any orders if we do not receive word from Kremlin?”, asked Yuri. Ivan made the hand sign for “no”. A moment passed, and Ivan pushed the radio button again.

“Can you trigger re-entry sequency yourself?”, asked Ivan. Yuri also had to answer no. While the second-stage espionage modifications had obviously been developed years before, he had no time to train on them before being assigned to this mission just a day before launch. His main purpose was to take control of the ISS, for which he had plenty of training. Useless training.

The long-range receiver came to life, the static turning into fuzzy words. Yuri jumped, his heart pounding. But the language was English. They must be over North America again. Still, Yuri welcomed any reminder that Earth was still there beneath them somewhere. He closed his eyes and listened to the droning American announcer.

“…concluding the Super Bowl protests and paving the way for another New England victory. On to world news, it appears that the Russian protests have evolved into a full-blown revolution! The latest videos show the Kremlin overrun…”

Yuri’s eyes snapped open. He turned to Ivan, about to hit the radio button, before remembering that Ivan spoke no English. The radio announcement kept going.

“…overrun with protesters, and there are unconfirmed reports that Putin has been captured by the mob. The state security apparatus is reportedly in disarray and there is shooting reported throughout government buildings. Instead of defending Moscow a large portion of the military appears to have moved to eastern Russia, though we do not yet know who is in charge. And in Kazakhstan, the local government has reportedly arrested all Russian citizens at the Baikonur and claimed the launch facility for themselves…”

Yuri’s stomach turned, and despite not eating for the last two days he felt like he would throw up. He turned to Ivan and made the sign for radio urgently.

“Ivan, I just heard American radio,” he said. “They say revolt in Russia, Vladimir Putin is captured. Nobody in charge. And Baikonur is taken by Kazakhs.” He could not see Ivan’s expression in the grey light of their makeshift ship. “Ivan, I think we are alone.”

Twelve more hours had passed since Yuri heard the broadcast. No new signal had come to them. Eight times they had passed over North America, and each time he strained to hear any news of his homeland, but besides a few words describing “…chaos in a leaderless Russia, which the President is…” there was nothing. Hunger had started to gnaw on Yuri’s stomach, combining with an acid fear that fogged his mind and made it hard to think like an engineering, like he was trained. Think of how to solve the problem. Think of how to get back home.

Ivan was no help. Yuri had tried to talk to him about the situation several times, but Ivan always refused to discuss the crazier theories that Yuri was trying to brainstorm. To Yuri’s insistence that they try to signal to the outside world that this wasn’t just a piece of space debris but a craft with two people inside, Yuri simply said “We wait.” When Yuri pressed him on it, tried to discuss what ifs, Ivan turned his radio off. Yuri assumed he was waiting for the revolution to stabilize and to receive orders one way or another. Maybe he had been told a different timeline on when they might go back home. But, whether because of the hunger or the fear or the rushed nature of this mission, Yuri had already given up hope that the Kremlin would get back in contact with them. He had decided, around hour 40, that if nobody had called them by now the only explanation was that nobody even knew they were up here.

Yuri turned to Ivan and motioned for the radio. At first he swore Ivan rolled his eyes, though in the gloom of their one dim LED light that would have been impossible to see. But Ivan did turn the radio on.

“Ivan, it has been 48 hours,” Yuri said desperately, his voice pitching high. “Kremlin assured us that they would get in touch in 24, whether to attack or return. Only explanation is that nobody is left. We must signal somehow! Or go to ISS to save ourselves.”

There was a long pause on the radio. Yuri could hear Ivan breathing. Finally, Ivan answered, in a voice that betrayed just a hint of frustration.

“I was given more explanation than you,” Ivan said in a low voice. “Attacking ISS without signal would be huge danger politically, very bad for diplomacy. I was told we may have to wait more than 24 hours. That most important was to wait for orders. Even if something goes wrong, we wait.” Ivan turned off the radio, but then, almost reluctantly, turned it back on.

“Yuri, you have done well for your country,” Ivan said slowly. “I wished to perform this mission with you. But I was given other orders as well. Contingency plan. I must wait until the last possible moment before ending the mission.” Through the hunger and fear, Yuri struggled to understand what Ivan meant. He took a sip of water to calm himself, and…of course. The water. The air. His eyes grew wide, and his heart began to beat loudly in his ears. Ivan nodded at him once, visible even through the suit, a motion that seemed to indicated regret, and then slowly reached towards the pocket that held his gun.