# Void 2

# September 01, 2025

# fiction

James sat on the edge of the cliff, his breath creating a tiny nebula of fog on his otherwise crystal clear faceplate. Above him, an uncountable multitude of stars blazed cleanly and brightly. More stars brightened the night to his right and his left. And below him. One of the perks of working on asteroids less than a kilometer in diameter was that one could find a cliff or rocky outcropping that let you sit at the edge and be completely surrounded by the ethereal beauty of outer space. The magnetic safety clamps in his suit let him sit comfortably on the iron-rich asteroid’s surface and stare out into the heavens.

In past nights, on other asteroids, James would have thought about how strange it was that humans in their tiny air bubbles were hopping from rock to metallic rock throughout the solar system. Or he might have fiddled with his controls to find some music or educational broadcast to pass the time. Many days he would just stared straight ahead, past the edge of the solar system into an interstellar space full of distant solar systems, and dreamed of the future.

But on this asteroid, at this cliff, he did none of those things. Because while the stars still shone unblinkingly above, below, and to the side of him, when he stared forward all he saw was a huge void of nothinginess.

The first time he saw this massive expansion of emptiness he had been frozen in shock. After a few moments he had jetpacked back to the mining base as quickly as he could, rapid breath quickly devouring his oxygen stores, and told the others that there was something horrible going on. He had described a massive structure, an alien spacecraft, something unexplainable and fearful that blotted out half the sky without so much as a radar reflection or thermal signature. Concerned, the other miners quickly followed him back to the cliff. But when James pointed out the void in front of him, the others just looked confused.

“James, I’ll be honest I don’t see anything,” the chief engineer finally spoke into the radio.

“That’s the point!” James almost yelled back.

“I mean, I see stars,” said the chief engineer. “I see the plane of the ecliptic. I even think I see our sun a couple degrees from horizontal. I don’t know what sort of black thing you saw, but it’s not there now.”

James followed the engineer’s pointed finger towards where the sun should be, but saw nothing. Just utter nothingness. After a few angry jabs from the other miners about stupid practical jokes and a couple slightly more concerned voices asking if James had been feeling feverish, the others went back to base. But James stayed out on the cliff, staring into nothing, until the low pressure alarm on his oxygen regulator convinced him to go back inside.

Over the last few weeks James had been coming out to the cliff almost every night. At first, it was just to see if the void was still there, or if he had just been delusional or hallucinating. He would go take a look, see that the void was still there, and then quickly leave, feeling more confused than ever. But after a few cycles of this he noticed himself rushing through the end of his shift to get to the cliff faster, and staying longer and longer looking into the void. He no longer spared a glance for the stars above and around him. He neve put on music or an educational broadcast while he was there. In fact, he had stopped listening to anything even during the long hours in the mining caves. Music and learning new things just didn’t give him any pleasure, and after a week or so he found it hard to remember the point of listening to them at all. He even stopped talking to the other miners, finding their conversations more and more annoying. Whether grinding rocks, surveying new iron ore veins, or analyzing data for precious metals, all he could think about was going back out to the cliff, sitting at the edge of the universe, and gazing into that nothingness.

He hid it from his coworkers well. If they noticed him becoming angry and withdrawn, they didn’t say anything. If they resented him for leaving work as soon as their shift was officially over, or for no longer eating dinner with them or playing cards or bullshitting together about what they would do when they finally got their big payday, he didn’t notice. He said things to them, the things a normal person would say, but his coworker’s responses slipped out of his memory as soon as they said them. All he thought about was that emptiness, out on the cliff, waiting for him.

After a few weeks, the void started to speak to James. Not with words so much. But with ideas. Impressions. A feeling of warmth and comfort where there used to be fear and caution. A vague sense of desire. Something drawing him in. “Come closer,” it seemed to say. “There’s peace here. There’s an end to everything that’s ever bothered you.” It didn’t matter that James couldn’t really think of what it was that bothered him, couldn’t remember anything that he was running from specifically or that had really bothered him about life as an asteroid miner. In fact, when he tried to think back about the last few years of his life out in the stars, he remembered feeling pretty happy. But he found it harder and harder to remember the past. And every night, that feeling of peace, comfort, seductive desire wrapped around him and called out to him. For a week or so he was content just to sit and bask in the feeling, staring ahead with almost unblinking eyes until his oxygen concentration reached critically low levels. But the last few nights, the feeling had come with an itch. A dissatisfaction with just sitting and watching. A desire for more.

And tonight, after almost a month of daily trips to the cliff, a month of sleeplessness and a growing anger with the mundane parts of his daily routine, a month of being tired and unhappy everywhere except here, James finally broke. He stood up, his mind focused with an usual clarity, and reached forwards. Black tendrils began to creep around the outside of his vision. The call to jump, to give himself to that void, felt like a deep ache in his chest. It was like heartbreak, but he knew that all he had to do was take a step forward and it would be satisfied. He smiled, and began to step forward.

But before he could step off the cliff, a small rock shifted under his foot. For a second he was off balance, flailing, despite the magnetic clamps still keeping him attached to the asteroid. And in that second, purely by accident, he looked up.

And saw the stars.

For a few seconds that felt like an eternity James stood frozen between the stars and the void. Everything inside of him was telling him to jump. It’s not too bad, his inner voice was saying. You’ll be fine. How could anything like this not be a miracle? People will love you for being the first one to make the jump. You’re brave for leaping into the void. This will make you happy. This will give you peace.

But despite everything inside of him, his very self, wanting to jump, something else kept his eyes focused on the stars. And very slowly, almost unthinkingly, as if thinking would let the part of him that wanted the void know what was happening, he lowered his arm. And without taking his eyes off the stars, but with every fiber of his soul aching to take the leap, he turned around and walked back towards the base.

For the next three days James was too sick to leave his bed. Vomiting, shaking uncontrollably, weeping like a crazy person. The base’s medic actually had to strap him down to their hospital bed when he tried getting up and running outside without a space suit. But eventually the fever and delirium faded. James got back to work, made his apologies for his rudeness over the last month (luckily, his sickness gave him the excuse he needed to make amends), and started taking his turn in the nightly card games again. He found happiness again in the day to day job of asteroid mining, in hanging out with the crew, with imagining all the things he would do after this posting ended and he got back to civilization. But while the feelings he had experienced faded, something inside of him still felt missing.

Six months later, the job was done. The whole mining crew prepared to ship out to their next destination. Before they left, James went back to the cliff, for the first time since his sickness. In every direction he looked, he saw the stars. But staring straight ahead, looking closely, he noticed one small spot in the blackness that was empty. And like the shadow of a memory he felt a tiny tug on his heart, that desire, that calling. He smiled a sad smile. Then turned around for the last time and walked back to base.